the one thing that I knew as a child is
that there was no hope for me of it
stopping
my father was my role model and I did
adore him and I did love him what
happened to me
he started coming into my room when I
was five until I was 18 and the one
thing that I knew as a child is that
there was no hope for me of it stopping
and as I look back I was right there was
not one person who would have been able
to help me and so as a survival tool I
dissociated I call it split what happens
to a child who is traumatized and
terrorized if you know that it's going
to keep happening there's no way you can
go to school and get A's and play
marbles and play tag and ride your bike
home and be a happy child if you know
what's waiting for you and that you have
no power to stop that my eldest sister
Gwen who is also an incest survivor
I watched her be beaten and sent away to
a boarding school I'd never heard of a
boarding school all when I was seven I
just knew that she went away so I
learned very quickly that to be defiant
is not a way that I should go so that
took that tool away from me and so what
I was just able to do as a child which
is very common is to I call it split my
mind and I split into what I call a day
child in an eye child and it's very real
to me I don't remember this but I
believe it happened I believe that
somewhere in my mind as a young child I
said okay you're you stay in the room
and you take what you have to take and
I'll go out and I'll be very successful
and when I'm free and successful I'll
come back and get you and save you and I
believe I struck a deal so I did I went
out and I was successful in everything I
tried I graduated with Phi Beta Kappa
honors from college I was on the ski
team I was in the modern choir I was
homecoming queen I was missing
I was named the outstanding woman
speaker I mean everything I tried I was
just successful successful successful
the problem is is that I didn't want to
go back and get her I hated and loathed
and despised her more than anyone I
could ever dislike I wanted her to go
away and instead of going back and
welcoming her into my life I wanted her
dead and I think that my recovery would
not have been as difficult as it was if
I had been able to have compassion for
the child I call the night child and
because I could not have compassion for
her and because I didn't want her ever
to be in my life or ever acknowledge her
she played havoc with me and I and I do
believe that I believe she's the one I
think I I characterize it as a child
going in and say mommy mommy mommy and
the mother said I'm busy now busy now
and the child goes back in and says
mommy mommy mommy and pulls on her dress
and she says I'm busy now so the child
goes and takes the best piece of crystal
she can find and crashes it on the floor
now she has her mother's attention and
this is what began to happen to me as an
adult I when I was 13 I went into
physical paralysis and was unable to
move I my head would work but my body
wouldn't work and I was hospitalized for
the better part of three months in three
different hospitals I went to the Mayo
Clinic and they said we can find nothing
wrong with you and I had paralysis
spells for eleven years from age 39 to
51 and finally I I didn't know what else
to do so finally at age 40 I went into
therapy and I began to start dealing
with what had happened to me from age 5
to age 18 you live a lifetime of
isolation and it's something that I used
even as an adult I chose a career that
was isolating I chose to be a public
speaker I got on a plane by myself I
went to a hotel by myself I stayed in
the hotel by myself I went for one hour
I was
people and then I could back hotel back
very isolating I grew up you don't have
relationships with anybody the only all
I had was my father and that's like a
sugar pill laced with arsenic
I never had a relationship with my
mother or my sisters
you can't the secret is too huge in too
intense I looked like I fit in school I
was homecoming queen
I was knit I was constantly being voted
everything I looked like I fit but when
people say are you going to go back to
your high school reunion why would I go
back I don't I I don't feel any close
connection with anybody we're gonna go
back to your college reunion why would I
go back to my college reunion I don't
feel a strong connection I never just
could allow myself to be known because
you keep so much of yourself private
because you believe because I believed
as almost every sexual abuse survivor
believes if you knew this about me you
would never want to speak to me again
and no matter how many honors I want and
I want them here's this other part of me
this is Who I am
and then but if you knew this about me
you would never want to be with me again
we don't most of us unless it's raped by
a stranger but if we're violated by
someone who is a trusted person it's the
only person then that we have it's a
connection it's the only connection that
we have what I wanted to my father's
death was his daytime love and I never
got that not one day of his foot of a
daytime father's love I just got him at
night and that's all I had and that's
all I had to cling to
until I met Larry at Lee when I was 15
and then I think everything really began
to change because I fell so deeply in
love with Larry I was a sophomore in
high school and he was a senior I
thought I would fall in love with a tall
blond Swede with blue eyes and I walk
into student council and
here's this kind of swarthy complexion
brown-eyed and it was just as if my
heart just left my body and our love was
so deep and so intense and he never
betrayed me in the almost forty years
we've been married
he's never betrayed me I could trust him
even when I did crazy things like
marrying somebody else
he just has never let me down and I
think I'm unusually fortunate to have
found someone at such a young age that I
could love and who would love me in
return
unclear he has loved me unconditionally
believe me I've put him through every
test there is there isn't a test I
haven't put him through and one of the
first tests was marrying somebody else
that's a very big test and I married
into a situation that was an abusive one
not because my first husband I I'm not
going to say our relationship was
abusive was he abusive no was our
relationship v's we were oil and water
it and I would have continued doing that
we choose because we feel unlovable we
have to marry into relationships where
we're not treated well because we don't
believe we deserve to be treated well
and fortunately I had enough courage to
leave that marriage in three months and
I am forever grateful that I had the
courage to do that and I went to New
York where my career was and I was
living there feeling like the worst
person Miss America's don't get divorced
you just don't get divorced and after
the divorce was on the front page of the
paper I got a letter from Larry and he
said of all the things we have been
together most of all we've been best
friends if I can be a friend to you at
this time please call
if not let this letter be as a leaf in
the wind and I just started crying and I
I was living with another Miss America
and I said I just can't call him look
what I've done he was getting ready to
ask me to marry him and I married
somebody else and she said he wants you
to call him and I did and we got back
together we were going to be married and
then I started running from him again
and he I didn't have anything to do with
him then he starts going with somebody
else named Erol and they're all his
girlfriends were always named Marilyn
and then I'd come back to Denver and we
can get married again and then I get on
a plane and moved back to New York and I
didn't I wouldn't return his calls and
it was just craziness and I had no
understanding of why I was sabotaging my
life and I was and because I had split
because I had dissociated because I had
repressed the memories of incest I
didn't know what was running my life and
the same year that I met Larry I met a
youth minister and for nine years
he just kept sort of watching what I was
doing and he would say to himself I
didn't make a lot of sense what she just
did but he didn't think too much about
it until I married somebody other than
Larry and then he said to himself
there's something here that I don't know
about and then when I divorced after
three months he said okay after nine
years of watching what she's doing I now
believe she's trying to destroy herself
I just have to figure out why and that's
when he began asking searching questions
and one day as unbelievable as it was
for my family I grew up in the
picture-perfect family I was called the
debutante Miss America I was the first
Miss America that they ever brought a
family up on stage they didn't bring
families up on the stage they took one
look at my family they went over the
midnight hour they paid hundreds of
thousands of dollars they knew this but
they knew and they said bring the
Vandiver family up they
did the waters in the bit they walked up
on the stage I mean it must have taken
them a good three minutes to get to this
we want you to meet America we want you
to meet the van der briefly these are
the four beautiful daughters and the
mother and the father because we were
picture-perfect family incest in our
family who would have even thought of
the word in the 1950s and he just asked
me the question and saved my life by
doing it I think he asked did your
father ever come into your room at night
and I never answered the question I just
started crying and there it was there it
was and the reason that I kept running
from Larry is because I didn't feel
worthy of him
if he knew who I really was then he
wouldn't want me and then I had to tell
Larry and you ought to try telling
someone that you love who thinks you're
the most perfect he's always felt I was
just perfect and you ought to try to
find the words to tell him that you're
not who he has believed that you've been
all these years and I just I just always
thought the youth minister would tell
him it never occurred to me that he
would make me tell him and we had Larry
fly to California and when he came in
and sat down I just started crying in
I'm waiting for Dede to tell him and oh
this Minister it was just is so wise
it's a part of the healing process you
don't tell somebody else's story ever
you never tell somebody else's story it
was not his job to tell Larry it was
mine and he knew that I don't know how
he knew that but he knew that and he
knew it's the first step in the healing
process to try to find those words well
the youth minister said Marilyn has
something to tell you I couldn't even
raise my head I could never have look
Larry in the eye to try to tell him that
I'm not who you think I am at all I'm a
really bad person and
I don't know what words I used but when
he I don't and I don't know how he ever
could have put it together but he just
came over and just took me in his arms
and he just said I understand everything
now I understand everything now Larry
always understood the big picture he
always understood how that would impact
our sexual relationship which shut down
completely twice he understood that that
would impact absolutely every aspect of
my life he never said to me how could
you love your father how could you love
your father which people still say to me
how could you love your father Larry
would say and Larry despised my father
understandably and Larry would just say
he's your father he's your father and
when I finally went into full-time
therapy and I'm trying to figure out I
hate my father I love my father my
father humiliated and degraded me I I
couldn't I wanted to find one word to
describe my feelings this is how I feel
about my father because people who knew
wanted me to say this is how I feel
about my father everybody wanted to hate
my father and I know that's what people
wanted me to say and I just needed one
sentence this is how I feel about my
father and I was and finally Larry said
to me one day he said you know you take
the white off of a golf ball and you see
all of these rubber bands completely
intertwined he said you can't pull one
of them out and say that I hate my
father or you can't just pull another
one out there just he said this is how
you feel about your father
this is how you and I said that's how I
feel about my father I have all those
feelings I have all of those mixed up
crazy mixed up feelings and I continue
to love my father until I was 56 until I
received a letter from a woman who told
me that my father had never stopped my
father continued
to sexually violate children and
teenagers until he died at age 75 they
never stopped they never stop is there
an exception to that I'm sure there is
would I trust my child with any kind of
a sexual predator absolutely never not
for 10 seconds my mother walked down the
hallway one night I was about 11 or 12
and my father always came in late at
night late meaning 10:00 11:00
sometimes been dying and he'd been in my
room for maybe a half hour and all of a
sudden I heard footsteps coming down I
could hear the first step and then the
second step very very very slowly and
then the third step and she was now
about 12 feet from my door and I waited
to hear another step and it was just it
was a dramatic moment when everything
stopped for all three of us all three of
us knew exactly what each one of us was
thinking and knew it's the only time I
ever felt my father afraid he just
stopped and I thought it's going to be
over she's going to come in and we
waited for that dramatic moment and then
I heard a step up the steps and up the
steps and up the steps and I knew she
would never come through that door
and I knew she would never ever come to
help me do I believe she knew absolutely
I had a reporter say to me did your
mother know and I said it went on in our
home for 18 years and the reporter said
but did your mother know and I said it
went on in our home for 18 years would
you know if something went on in your
home for 18 years of course she knew
did she repress it is that how I learned
to dissociate maybe
maybe maybe she just couldn't deal with
it so she just put it somewhere and what
and wouldn't think about it but I do
believe she made a decision I believe
she made a choice and she didn't choose
me when I when I felt an obsession to
talk with her and it wasn't I need to
talk to my mother it's I have to talk to
my mother I was 48 years old and my
father had died a year earlier and I all
of a sudden just had to confront her and
find out why she never helped me why she
never stopped him and so I went over and
I just I just sobbed and so I just
couldn't get the words out I I just that
deep kind of gut-wrenching sobbing and
when I finally was able to get thee they
were not sentences they were words when
I finally was able to just get the words
out I looked up and she was sitting
there with her arms folded and she said
I don't believe you
it's in your fantasy I never expected
that never I was so stunned I stopped
crying It was as if she had just slapped
me hard across the face
you
and one of the important things that I
want people to understand is that it's
never too late to be a mother if when I
went to her after my father had died if
I had gone to her as I did and cried
from the depths of my being I wanted her
to be my mother
I wanted her to say I am so desperately
sorry I wasn't there for her I wanted
her to weep with me if she had done that
from the depths of her being not oh I'm
so sorry
or boohoo I mean a real depth of despair
I would have had a mother if she had
done that at any point along the way I
would have had a mother it's never too
late in my opinion it never happened and
to her death at age 88 she was never
able to say to me I am so desperately
sorry for what you've been through where
was I I don't know how this could have
happened for so long in our home she
never said any of the words that I
needed to hear I didn't get a mother and
I didn't get a father but oh did I marry
into a family I have a husband that
cherishes and gives me unconditional
love I had a mother-in-law and a
father-in-law who gave me unconditional
love although I was not able to tell
them until they were in their 80s I had
too much shame even when I was in a
psychiatric ward even when I was in
paralysis even you know they saw me go
through my craziness and I thought it
was okay if they just thought I had
craziness that was better than have been
knowing I was an incest survivor because
I could never tell them that because
then they would not love me anymore that
belief system goes on for way too long
and I finally the only reason I ended
them up telling them it when they were
in their 80s is because I was having
deep paralysis spells and my mother told
my mother-in-law they were best friends
which was so hard for me that the reason
I was having paralysis spells was greed
over the estate and what my mother
didn't know is that my mother-in-law
would ever discuss it with me
and I went over one day and I called my
mother-in-law nan and she said you know
my darling your mother has told me what
these paralysis spells are about greed
over the estate and I just thought oh
isn't my mother good
and my father-in-law had the most
incredible response he rose and he said
I will never speak to your mother again
oh how validating is that and I said
thank you papa but this is not about you
and my mother this is about me and my
mother this you can be friends with her
it's okay with me but so protective this
is what we want to hear I'm here for you
you